---
title: 2.0 C++ Build Process
permalink: /build-process
---
# How a C++ program is actually build
&nbsp;  


So far we have been doing everything within an Integrated Development Environment (IDE), and while I have often said we are building and running a program interchangeably with compiling it. Thus, it is easy to think of these terms meaning the same thing, but in reality they are actually quite different.

While compiling is a major component of actually building our C++ files, there is a little more going on behind the scenes than just that one aspect.

&nbsp;  

## The build process

The actual build process of turning our raw code contained in the source file(s) into an actual executable program can be broken into three major steps:

1. Preprocessing
2. Compilation
3. Linking
&nbsp;  

### Preprocessing

We have actually been working with what are known as preprocessor directives ever since our first Hello World program.

At the top of every file there was an #include file that started with the prefix '#', as shown here:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
```
&nbsp;  

This statement is called a preprocessor directive. A program known as the preprocessor looks for these statements in order to manipulate the text of the source code file before it is sent on to be compiled.

In the case of the include directive, the preprocessor "includes" the contents of the specified file as though it were actually written at the point where the directive appears. You can think of it as a kind of copy/pasting of the include file's code into your source file at the location of the include statement.

There are several preprocessor directives other than include, just a few of which are shown here:

```cpp
#define
#pragma
#import
#ifndef
#endif
```
&nbsp;  

While pre-processor directives can appear anywhere within a source file, keep in mind that they only take effect from the point of their appearance onward. This is why you will typically see them at the top of our source files, as we want their functionality to be available to all of our code.

In addition to preprocessor directives, the preprocessor can utilize preprocessor operators, predefined macros, and if using a Microsoft compiler, Pragmas.

A discussion of the different preprocessor functionality is include toward the end of this guide, but for now it is enough to know of their existence.
