---
title: 2.a2 Intel syntax versus AT&T syntax
permalink: /intel-att
---

# Intel Syntax versus AT&T Syntax

>Definition of syntax<sup>[1]</sup>
>
>1a : the way in which linguistic elements (such as words) are put together to form constituents (such as phrases or clauses)
>b : the part of grammar dealing with this

The x86 assembly language (both 32- and 64-bit) has two alternative syntaxes available for it. By default, the GCC compiler will output .s files using what is known as the AT&T syntax. This is the standard used on Linux systems and in the related documentation used with those systems.

There is another syntax known as the Intel syntax. As you probably can guess from its name, this is the syntax Intel uses in their documentation, and thus other systems such as Windows and related the documentation also use this style. As you can imagine, certain compiler and assemblers will only work with one form of syntax or the other.

Fortunately, the latest release's of GCC include the capability to work with either syntax. While either form (Intel or AT$T) is valid syntax, they will require setting different flags when we use the compiler. By default, GCC uses the AT&T syntax as it was originally code that way. To compile our program to use Intel syntax when generating the .s assembly source file, 

 Either of these directives may have an optional argument, prefix, or noprefix specifying whether registers require a % prefix. AT&T System V/386 assembler syntax is quite different from Intel syntax. We mention these differences because almost all 80386 documents use Intel syntax. Notable differences between the two syntaxes are:



    AT&T and Intel syntax use the opposite order for source and destination operands. Intel add eax, 4 is addl $4, %eax. The source, dest convention is maintained for compatibility with previous Unix assemblers. Note that instructions with more than one source operand, such as the enter instruction, do not have reversed order. Section 21.11 AT&T Syntax bugs.

    In AT&T syntax the size of memory operands is determined from the last character of the instruction mnemonic. Mnemonic suffixes of b, w, l and q specify byte (8-bit), word (16-bit), long (32-bit) and quadruple word (64-bit) memory references. Intel syntax accomplishes this by prefixing memory operands (not the instruction mnemonics) with byte ptr, word ptr, dword ptr and qword ptr. Thus, Intel mov al, byte ptr foo is movb foo, %al in AT&T syntax.

    Immediate form long jumps and calls are lcall/ljmp $section, $offset in AT&T syntax; the Intel syntax is call/jmp far section:offset. Also, the far return instruction is lret $stack-adjust in AT&T syntax; Intel syntax is ret far stack-adjust.

    The AT&T assembler does not provide support for multiple section programs. Unix style systems expect all programs to be single sections.

                      Intel 	             AT&T
  Comments 	          ; 	                 //
  Instructions 	      add 	               addq
  Register names 	    eax, ebx, etc. 	     %eax,%ebx, etc.  
  Operands order      mov eac, [ecx]       movl (%ecx), %eax
  Immediates 	        0x100 	             $0x100
  Indirect 	          [eax] 	             (%eax)
  General indirect 	  [base + reg + reg * scale + displacement] 	displacement(reg, reg, scale)

  Comments - Intel prefixes comments with the semicolon ';' whereas AT&T uses two forward slashes '//'.
  Instructions - Intel uses the instruction or opcode name while AT&T suffixes the name with a 'l' long, 'w' word, or 'b' byte. add becomes addl, mov becomes movl, etc.
  Register names - Intel uses the register name, whereas AT&T registers are prefixes with the percent '%' sign.
  Operands order - The order of destination and source operands is reversed. Intel uses a destination, source format, while AT&T uses source, destination. For example, move the contents of the ecx register into eac  is expressed as: mov eac, [ecx] using Intel syntax, and movl (%ecx), %eax using AT&T syntax.
  Immediates - Intel immediate operands are undelimited, whereas AT&T immediate operands are prefixed with the dollar ’$’ sign.



Footnotes:
  1 - “syntax” [The Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary] https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/syntax. Accessed 1/1/2020.
